docs/content/3.guide/3.migration/1.from-v1.md, before:

---
title: 'From Content v1'
description: 'Learn how to upgrade from Nuxt Content V1 to Nuxt Content V2 for Nuxt 3.'
---

# Migration from Content V1

- Make sure your dev server (`nuxt dev`) isn't running and remove any package lock files (`package-lock.json` and `yarn.lock`)

- Upgrade to Nuxt 3 (check out the [Nuxt 3 migration guide](https://v3.nuxtjs.org/getting-started/migration))

  ```diff
  - "nuxt": "latest"
  + "nuxt": "^3.0.0-rc.3"
  ```

- Upgrade Content module

  ```diff
  - "@nuxt/content": "^1.15.1"
  + "@nuxt/content": "^2.0"
  ```

- Then, reinstall your dependencies:

  ```bash
  yarn install
  ```

## Global Components

The global components directory for Nuxt Content v2 is now `~/components/content`.

```diff
- components/global
+ components/content
```

## Fetching Content

There is no global `$content` variable, instead you can use `queryContent` composable to fetch contents.

```diff
- const posts = await this.$content('/blog', { deep: true }).only(['title']).fetch()
+ const { data: posts } = await useAsyncData('posts-list', () => queryContent('/blog').only(['title']).find())
```

`queryContent` provide same utilities as legacy `$content` with some improvements:

- `fetch` dropped in favor of new find utils
  - [`find`](/api/composables/query-content#find): retrieve a list of contents
  - [`findOne`](/api/composables/query-content#findOne): retrive first matched content
- `surround` dropped in favor of [`findSurround`](/api/composables/query-content#findSurround)
- [`where`](/api/composables/query-content#where) utility can be chained

  ```ts
  queryContent()
    .where({ /* first step conditions */ })
    .where({ /* second step conditions */ })
    .find()
  ```

- There is no `search` utility for full text search.
- Find utilities does not contains body of documents and they only include meta information of parsed contents. You can fetch contents body using `getContentDocument`(non-reactive) or `useContentDocument`(reactive) composables

  ```js
  const doc = await getContentDocument(post.id)
  ```

- There is new [`findNavigation`](/api/composables/query-content#findnavigation) utility to retrieve navigation object

## Rendering Content

`<NuxtContent>` component removed in favor of a `<ContentRenderer>` component.

`<ContentDoc>` component receive document path then fetch and render the document.

```vue
<script setup lang="ts">
const route = useRoute()

const { data } = useAsyncData('get-document', () => queryContent(route.path).findOne())
</script>

<template>
  <ContentRenderer :value="data" />
</template>
```

You can go even faster if you know that `route.path` will be the same as your content files, use the `<ContentDoc>` component:

```vue
<template>
  <ContentDoc />
</template>
```

The `<ContentDoc>` component will fetch the document for the current route path and use `<ContentRenderer>` to render it.

## Feature comparison

| Feature / Version | Convent v1 | Content v2 |
| ----------------- | :--------: | :--------: |
| Nuxt Version      | `nuxt@2.x` | `nuxt@3.x` | 
| Supported files   |  `.md`, `.yaml`, `.yml`, `.csv`, `.json`, `.json5`, `.xml` | `.md`, `.yaml`, `.yml`, `.csv`, `.json`, `.json5` |
| Full text search  | ✅         | ❌          |
| Reactive Composables |  ❌  |  ✅  |
| [FrontMatter](/guide/writing/markdown#front-matter) | ✅ |  ✅ |
| [Excerpt](https://content.nuxtjs.org/writing#excerpt) |  ✅  |  ✅  |
| [Table Of Contents](https://content.nuxtjs.org/writing#table-of-contents) |  ✅  |  ✅  |
| MDC Components syntax |  ❌  |  ✅  |
| Multi Source          |  ❌  |  ✅  |
| Locale Support        |  ❌  |  ✅  |
| Content Navigation    |  ❌  |  ✅  |

## Querying content

::alert
Learn more about query methods in the [API reference](/api/composables/query-content)
::

Commit message:

Added helpful hint for Vue Components in MD files

docs/content/3.guide/3.migration/1.from-v1.md, after:

---
title: 'From Content v1'
description: 'Learn how to upgrade from Nuxt Content V1 to Nuxt Content V2 for Nuxt 3.'
---

# Migration from Content V1

- Make sure your dev server (`nuxt dev`) isn't running and remove any package lock files (`package-lock.json` and `yarn.lock`)

- Upgrade to Nuxt 3 (check out the [Nuxt 3 migration guide](https://v3.nuxtjs.org/getting-started/migration))

  ```diff
  - "nuxt": "latest"
  + "nuxt": "^3.0.0-rc.3"
  ```

- Upgrade Content module

  ```diff
  - "@nuxt/content": "^1.15.1"
  + "@nuxt/content": "^2.0"
  ```

- Then, reinstall your dependencies:

  ```bash
  yarn install
  ```

## Global Components

The global components directory for Nuxt Content v2 is now `~/components/content`.

```diff
- components/global
+ components/content
```

## Vue Components

If using Vue components in your `.md` content, make sure you put those components in the `components/content` directory. They won't work if left in the root `components` directory.

## Fetching Content

There is no global `$content` variable, instead you can use `queryContent` composable to fetch contents.

```diff
- const posts = await this.$content('/blog', { deep: true }).only(['title']).fetch()
+ const { data: posts } = await useAsyncData('posts-list', () => queryContent('/blog').only(['title']).find())
```

`queryContent` provide same utilities as legacy `$content` with some improvements:

- `fetch` dropped in favor of new find utils
  - [`find`](/api/composables/query-content#find): retrieve a list of contents
  - [`findOne`](/api/composables/query-content#findOne): retrive first matched content
- `surround` dropped in favor of [`findSurround`](/api/composables/query-content#findSurround)
- [`where`](/api/composables/query-content#where) utility can be chained

  ```ts
  queryContent()
    .where({ /* first step conditions */ })
    .where({ /* second step conditions */ })
    .find()
  ```

- There is no `search` utility for full text search.
- Find utilities does not contains body of documents and they only include meta information of parsed contents. You can fetch contents body using `getContentDocument`(non-reactive) or `useContentDocument`(reactive) composables

  ```js
  const doc = await getContentDocument(post.id)
  ```

- There is new [`findNavigation`](/api/composables/query-content#findnavigation) utility to retrieve navigation object

## Rendering Content

`<NuxtContent>` component removed in favor of a `<ContentRenderer>` component.

`<ContentDoc>` component receive document path then fetch and render the document.

```vue
<script setup lang="ts">
const route = useRoute()

const { data } = useAsyncData('get-document', () => queryContent(route.path).findOne())
</script>

<template>
  <ContentRenderer :value="data" />
</template>
```

You can go even faster if you know that `route.path` will be the same as your content files, use the `<ContentDoc>` component:

```vue
<template>
  <ContentDoc />
</template>
```

The `<ContentDoc>` component will fetch the document for the current route path and use `<ContentRenderer>` to render it.

## Feature comparison

| Feature / Version | Convent v1 | Content v2 |
| ----------------- | :--------: | :--------: |
| Nuxt Version      | `nuxt@2.x` | `nuxt@3.x` | 
| Supported files   |  `.md`, `.yaml`, `.yml`, `.csv`, `.json`, `.json5`, `.xml` | `.md`, `.yaml`, `.yml`, `.csv`, `.json`, `.json5` |
| Full text search  | ✅         | ❌          |
| Reactive Composables |  ❌  |  ✅  |
| [FrontMatter](/guide/writing/markdown#front-matter) | ✅ |  ✅ |
| [Excerpt](https://content.nuxtjs.org/writing#excerpt) |  ✅  |  ✅  |
| [Table Of Contents](https://content.nuxtjs.org/writing#table-of-contents) |  ✅  |  ✅  |
| MDC Components syntax |  ❌  |  ✅  |
| Multi Source          |  ❌  |  ✅  |
| Locale Support        |  ❌  |  ✅  |
| Content Navigation    |  ❌  |  ✅  |

## Querying content

::alert
Learn more about query methods in the [API reference](/api/composables/query-content)
::
